.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Robert Love (rml@tech9.net), MontaVista Software
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_GETCPUCLOCKID 3  2002-03-14 "Linux Manpage" "Linux Manpage"
.SH NAME
pthread_getcpuclockid \- retrieve the current thread's CPU-time clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cc [ flag ... ] file -lrt [ library ... ]
.sp
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int pthread_getcpuclockid(pthread_t " thread_id ", clockid_t *" clock_id ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pthread_getcpuclockid
retrieves the clock value of the CPU-time clock of the current thread. The
clock value is stored in
.IR clock_id .
The pthread ID specified by
.IR pthread_id
must equal the current thread.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success,
.BR pthread_getcpuclockid
returns the value 0 and places the retrieved clock value in
.IR clock_id .
.PP
On failure,
.BR pthread_getcpuclockid
returns the value -1 and
.IR errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR EFAULT
A specified memory address is outside the address range of the calling process.
.TP
.BR ENOSYS
The function is not supported on this implementation.
.TP
.BR EPERM
The requesting thread is not
.IR pthread_id .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
POSIX 1003.1b (formerly POSIX.4) as ammended by POSIX 1003.1j-2000.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clock_getcpuclockid (3),
.BR clock_getres (3),
.BR clock_gettime (3),
.BR clock_nanosleep (3),
.BR timer_create (3),
.BR timer_delete (3),
.BR timer_settime (3),
.BR timer_gettime (3)
.sp
.I IEEE 1003.1b-1993
(POSIX.1b standard, formerly POSIX.4), Section 14 (Clocks and Timers).
